The code relates to a research project about wealth inequality an taxes. Exercise the main file "Micro-Simulation Taxes" in your Python IDE such as Spyder to see the simulation results your plot control pane.

Abstract of the Research Paper

This paper discusses a tax paradox using the example of German income and wealth allocations as published by the Federal Statistical Office (Destatis) and the European Central Bank (HFCS Report) in 2017. Within the framework of a micro-simulation, I show the increase in inequality as measured by an increase in the “rich quantile”, i.e. the cumulative relative wealth of the top 20%. Taking into account a non-linear relationship between income and capital gains taxation, the rich quantile increases with decreasing capital growth rate r and increasing economy growth rate g. Inequality thus increases when, in particular r<g holds.  
The simulation results contradict the hypothesis of Piketty (2014) that wealth inequality increases in times of r>g. The results of Piketty (2014) might stem from a statistical artifact that does not mirror the true chain of economic effects. As Stiglitz (2015) already doubts, capitalism might not be the only reason for growing inequality but the influence of public policies. 
I provide an analytical proof, in form of a sensitivity analysis, that shows the following: Due to special structural processes in the tax codes of income and capital gains taxation, the relation as postulated by Piketty (2014) can be reversed. This is the case when average marginal tax rates of income approach top income marginal tax rates. Top wealth marginal tax rates approach top income marginal tax rates, whereas average marginal tax rates of income lie significantly above average marginal tax rates of wealth and finally top wealth marginal tax rates are significantly above average marginal tax rates of wealth. However, in the absence of taxation, I can support the hypothesis of Piketty (2014) and show growing inequality for r>g. 
Finally, I provide a necessary condition for tax code induced wealth allocations that are approximately inelastic with respect to r and g. Thereof, adjustments in the income tax should take place to the same extent as adjustments in the capital gains tax. Specifically, an increase in the marginal tax rate of the top income bracket, relative to the economy-wide average marginal tax rate on income, should be approximately equal to the top marginal tax rate of wealth, relative to the economy-wide marginal average tax rate on wealth.
